Dia05/readme.md, before:


# Splunk-Power-User

Esses são algumas perguntas preparatórios para a prova de Certificação PowerUser, uma das provas iniciais da Splunk para quem precisa executar tarefas de criação de consultas, alertas, dashboards, etc.

* BluePrint = https://www.splunk.com/pdfs/training/Splunk-Test-Blueprint-Power-User-v.1.1.pdf
* 65 Questões, mínimo de 75% de acerto.
* Perguntas de Múltipla escolha.

### Questões de Exemplo para a prova:
- Which command removes results with duplicate field values?
- Resposta: **dedup**

- These are booleans in the Splunk Search Language.
- Resposta: **And, NOT, OR**

- Which is not a comparison operator in Splunk?
- Resposta: **?=**

- Field values are case sensitive.
- Resposta: **False**

- How is the asterisk used in Splunk search?
- Resposta: **As a wildcard**

- Which of the following is NOT a stats function:
- Resposta: **addtotals**

- The search job inspector shows you how long a given search took to run.
- Resposta: **TRUE**

- Which of the following search modes automatically returns all extracted fields in the fields sidebar?
- Resposta: **Verbose Mode**

- Bucket names in Splunk indexes are used to:
- Resposta: **Determine if the bucket should be searched based on the time range of the search**

- When searching, field values are case:
- Resposta: **Insensitive**

- In this search, __________ will appear on the y-axis. SEARCH: **sourcetype=access_combined status!=200 | chart count over host**
- Resposta: **count**

- The ______ clause allows you to define which field is represented on the X axis of a chart.
- Resposta: **over**

- If a search returns _______ it can be viewed as a chart.
- Resposta: **statistics**

- The _____ axis should always be numeric.
- Resposta: **Y**

- Which type of visualization allows you to show a third dimension of data?
- Resposta: **bubble chart**

- Which of the following are valid options with the chart command?
- Resposta: **useother** **usenull**

- The iplocation and geostats commands can be used together.
- Resposta: **True**

- The geom command allows you to create:
- Resposta: **choropleth maps**

- This command will compute the sum of numeric fields within events and place the result in a new field:
- Resposta: **addtotals**

- Which command is used to create choropleth maps?
- Resposta: **geom**

- By default, the fillnull Command replaces null values with:
- Resposta: **0**

- What is wrong with the following search syntax: 
- sourcetype=vendor_sales | eval SalesTerritory = if((VendorID >= 7000 AND VendorID < 8000), Asia, "Rest of the World") | stats sum(price) as TotalRevenue by SalesTerritory
- Resposta: **Asia is not in double quotes**

- If the destination field for the eval command already exists, it is:
- Resposta: **overwritten by the new field defined in the eval command**

- You can only use one eval command per search.
- Resposta: **False**

- The eval command overwrites field values in the Splunk index.
- Resposta: **False**

- If you want to format values without changing their characteristics, which would you use?
- Resposta: **The fieldformat command**

- Mark the terms that fill in the blanks in the correct order: Use _____ to see results of a calculation, or group events on a field value. Use _____ to see events correlated together, or grouped by start and end values.
- Resposta: **stats, transaction**

- What will you learn from the results of the following search? sourcetype=cisco_esa | transaction mid, dcid, icid | timechart avg(duration)
- Resposta: **The average time elapsed during each transaction for all transactions**

- You can create a transaction based on multiple fields.
- Resposta: **True**

- The maxpause definition:
- Resposta: **Finds groups of events where the span of time between included events does not exceed a specific value**

- Which of these is NOT a field that is automatically created with the transaction command?
- Resposta: **maxcount**

- The transaction command allows you to _________ events across multiple sources.
- Resposta: **correlate**

- Knowledge Objects can be used to normalize data.
- Resposta: **True**

- What are the predefined ways Knowledge Objects can be shared?
- Resposta: **Specific App, Private e All Apps**

- Which users can create private Knowledge Objects?
- Resposta: **User, Admin e Power**

- Knowledge Objects should be named as generically as possible.
- Resposta: **False**

- When a user creates a Knowledge Object it is automatically set to _________.
- Resposta: **Private**

- When extracting fields, we may choose to use our own regular expressions.
- Resposta: **True**

- In the Field Extractor Utility, this button will display events that do not contain extracted fields.
- Resposta: **Non-Matches**

- After editing your regular expression from the Field Extractor Utility, you will be returned to the utility.
- Resposta: **False**

- Once a field is created using the regex method, you cannot modify the underlying regular expression.
- Resposta: **False**

- The field extractor utility allows you to extract fields using the following two methods:
- Resposta: **regex and delimiter**

- Fields extracted with the Field Extractor:
- Resposta: **Are specific to a host, source or sourcetype; Are persistent**

- During the validation step of the Field Extractor workflow:
- Resposta: **You can remove values that aren't a match for the field you want to define**

- How many ways are there to access the Field Extractor Utility?
- Resposta: **3**


### Materiais de Apoio:
* Commonly Used Search Commands: https://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/latest/Search/GetstartedwithSearch
* Search Job Inspector: https://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/latest/Search/ViewsearchjobpropertieswiththeJobInspector
* Creating Custom Visualizations: https://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/latest/AdvancedDev/CustomVizDevOverview
* Transaction Command Definitions: https://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/latest/SearchReference/Transaction
* Recommended Naming Convention: https://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/latest/Knowledge/Developnamingconventionsforknowledgeobjecttitles
* Splunk Regular Expressions: https://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/latest/Knowledge/AboutSplunkregularexpressions

Commit message:

Incluindo um tópico sobre Field Aliases e Calculated Fields

Dia05/readme.md, after:


# Splunk-Power-User

Esses são algumas perguntas preparatórios para a prova de Certificação PowerUser, uma das provas iniciais da Splunk para quem precisa executar tarefas de criação de consultas, alertas, dashboards, etc.

* BluePrint = https://www.splunk.com/pdfs/training/Splunk-Test-Blueprint-Power-User-v.1.1.pdf
* 65 Questões, mínimo de 75% de acerto.
* Perguntas de Múltipla escolha.

### Questões de Exemplo para a prova:
- Which command removes results with duplicate field values?
- Resposta: **dedup**

- These are booleans in the Splunk Search Language.
- Resposta: **And, NOT, OR**

- Which is not a comparison operator in Splunk?
- Resposta: **?=**

- Field values are case sensitive.
- Resposta: **False**

- How is the asterisk used in Splunk search?
- Resposta: **As a wildcard**

- Which of the following is NOT a stats function:
- Resposta: **addtotals**

- The search job inspector shows you how long a given search took to run.
- Resposta: **TRUE**

- Which of the following search modes automatically returns all extracted fields in the fields sidebar?
- Resposta: **Verbose Mode**

- Bucket names in Splunk indexes are used to:
- Resposta: **Determine if the bucket should be searched based on the time range of the search**

- When searching, field values are case:
- Resposta: **Insensitive**

- In this search, __________ will appear on the y-axis. SEARCH: **sourcetype=access_combined status!=200 | chart count over host**
- Resposta: **count**

- The ______ clause allows you to define which field is represented on the X axis of a chart.
- Resposta: **over**

- If a search returns _______ it can be viewed as a chart.
- Resposta: **statistics**

- The _____ axis should always be numeric.
- Resposta: **Y**

- Which type of visualization allows you to show a third dimension of data?
- Resposta: **bubble chart**

- Which of the following are valid options with the chart command?
- Resposta: **useother** **usenull**

- The iplocation and geostats commands can be used together.
- Resposta: **True**

- The geom command allows you to create:
- Resposta: **choropleth maps**

- This command will compute the sum of numeric fields within events and place the result in a new field:
- Resposta: **addtotals**

- Which command is used to create choropleth maps?
- Resposta: **geom**

- By default, the fillnull Command replaces null values with:
- Resposta: **0**

- What is wrong with the following search syntax: 
- sourcetype=vendor_sales | eval SalesTerritory = if((VendorID >= 7000 AND VendorID < 8000), Asia, "Rest of the World") | stats sum(price) as TotalRevenue by SalesTerritory
- Resposta: **Asia is not in double quotes**

- If the destination field for the eval command already exists, it is:
- Resposta: **overwritten by the new field defined in the eval command**

- You can only use one eval command per search.
- Resposta: **False**

- The eval command overwrites field values in the Splunk index.
- Resposta: **False**

- If you want to format values without changing their characteristics, which would you use?
- Resposta: **The fieldformat command**

- Mark the terms that fill in the blanks in the correct order: Use _____ to see results of a calculation, or group events on a field value. Use _____ to see events correlated together, or grouped by start and end values.
- Resposta: **stats, transaction**

- What will you learn from the results of the following search? sourcetype=cisco_esa | transaction mid, dcid, icid | timechart avg(duration)
- Resposta: **The average time elapsed during each transaction for all transactions**

- You can create a transaction based on multiple fields.
- Resposta: **True**

- The maxpause definition:
- Resposta: **Finds groups of events where the span of time between included events does not exceed a specific value**

- Which of these is NOT a field that is automatically created with the transaction command?
- Resposta: **maxcount**

- The transaction command allows you to _________ events across multiple sources.
- Resposta: **correlate**

- Knowledge Objects can be used to normalize data.
- Resposta: **True**

- What are the predefined ways Knowledge Objects can be shared?
- Resposta: **Specific App, Private e All Apps**

- Which users can create private Knowledge Objects?
- Resposta: **User, Admin e Power**

- Knowledge Objects should be named as generically as possible.
- Resposta: **False**

- When a user creates a Knowledge Object it is automatically set to _________.
- Resposta: **Private**

- When extracting fields, we may choose to use our own regular expressions.
- Resposta: **True**

- In the Field Extractor Utility, this button will display events that do not contain extracted fields.
- Resposta: **Non-Matches**

- After editing your regular expression from the Field Extractor Utility, you will be returned to the utility.
- Resposta: **False**

- Once a field is created using the regex method, you cannot modify the underlying regular expression.
- Resposta: **False**

- The field extractor utility allows you to extract fields using the following two methods:
- Resposta: **regex and delimiter**

- Fields extracted with the Field Extractor:
- Resposta: **Are specific to a host, source or sourcetype; Are persistent**

- During the validation step of the Field Extractor workflow:
- Resposta: **You can remove values that aren't a match for the field you want to define**

- How many ways are there to access the Field Extractor Utility?
- Resposta: **3**

- A field can only have one field alias.
- Resposta: **False**

- Field aliases can only be applied to a single source type, source, or host.
- Resposta: **False**

- Calculated fields are based on underlying:
- Resposta: **eval expressions**

- Once a field alias is created:
- Resposta: **You can still use the original field name to search**

- Field aliases are used to _____ data.
- Resposta: **normalize**




### Materiais de Apoio:
* Commonly Used Search Commands: https://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/latest/Search/GetstartedwithSearch
* Search Job Inspector: https://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/latest/Search/ViewsearchjobpropertieswiththeJobInspector
* Creating Custom Visualizations: https://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/latest/AdvancedDev/CustomVizDevOverview
* Transaction Command Definitions: https://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/latest/SearchReference/Transaction
* Recommended Naming Convention: https://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/latest/Knowledge/Developnamingconventionsforknowledgeobjecttitles
* Splunk Regular Expressions: https://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/latest/Knowledge/AboutSplunkregularexpressions
